What the guy from Oklahoma is Dean Kamm. Where does
Hannigan fit into this? Well, Hannigan came while
Earl Rutter was
president. Now, I had moved up from my job to what
they called the Director of Student Services.
Yeah. Director of Student Affairs. No. Director
of Civilian Student Affairs. And I moved the
office to the Y, and I had, they called me, the rest
of them called me the super counselor. And
somewhere along in this time, Earl Rudder brought
Jim Hannigan here, and I'm trying to come up with a
year, because Earl died in, what, 60? No, he dies in
70. He dies in 70. So Jim Hannigan came here, Mr.
Rutter, the inauguration of Mr. Rutter is in early
calendar 1960, but he had become president in 59.
And the inauguration is the next year. And
Hannigan gets... Rutter tells this story. that he
went to the computer and asked to find the best
qualified general for being the dean of students.
Now, he wanted some military experience, but that
was not it. That's how he found Hannigan. That's
how Hannigan's name showed up. Now, there may have
been some others, but he showed up. As you look back
on it, how well did Hannigan understand A&M? Well,
of course, when he first came here, now he was a
graduate of West Point, graduated there in 1926,
same year, 29, same year Benny Zinn graduated from
A&M. He knew something about him, but it didn't
take him long to learn it. And he took copious notes
and hardly ever, ever lost his temper. with
anybody. And he was named dean of students. Wasn't
long after that, they hired another guy and they
made him associate dean of students. And he didn't
pan out, so they moved me into his associate dean of
students. So you reported to Hannigan? I reported
to Hannigan. We became very good friends. And he
retired, I guess, in 73.
Hannigan, do you have anything else on Hannigan?
No, no, I'd love to. Hannigan, we knew he was going
to retire. We wanted to find a replacement for him
because we knew they were going to make it a vice
president's office. And it had to be a Ph.D., which
left me out, which I wouldn't mind. And we belonged
to an outfit called SWASPA, the Southwestern
Association of Student Personnel
Administrators. And we went to the convention in
Waco and I had known and Dean Hannigan had known
John Colas for some time, and so we talked about
him. Jim Hannigan and I talked about him on the way
up there. So he said, well, see if he's interested.
So I asked John, would you be interested in coming
to A&M? He was at East Texas at the time. He said, you
bet. So I told Hannigan, and Hannigan offered him a
chance to come down and interview, and so he's the
only one. I remember being one of the people that
had lunch with John Colas when he came to visit and
remember a nice pleasant impression that he made.
Let's go back to the Rutter years though.
How well did Mr. Rutter understand the students of
the 60s?
Well, I think you may understand he just couldn't
tolerate it. He
was not going to have any demonstrations on the
campus. And the funny thing about it was that the
civilian students would tell the cadets to stay
out of it, we'll handle it, because if the cadets
get into it, then you've got the media down. And,
you know, he confronted these guys that wanted to
march and everything and made them march around.
And they were having a confrontation in front of
Sully one time. And these civilian students told
the Corps to go on back, well, about supper time.
And there was an NBC television crew were filming
this. And all they got is these civilian students
telling these, what were they? The ragtag group,
they had a name. and telling them off, and all of a
sudden they hear the cadets marching to supper,
and they're yelling as they enter the dining hall.
While I'm coming there, there's a riot on the other
end of the campus. Boy, they shut down those
cameras, and they got down there. Of course, all
these kids marching, but then that time the
civilian students told these guys, right now, get
off the campus. We don't want you here. Is that the
worst demonstration you remember in the 60s? I
don't remember any. Well, they were going to march
front time, and I think it was, I don't remember
what it was about, but they met them at the north
gate and wouldn't let them on the campus. Civilian
students made them walk down what's now a Welborn
Road, and the police wouldn't let them walk on the
road, so they had to walk in a ditch, and there was a
little church down there in College Station over
close to the railroad track that they were going to
for a meeting. What was their cause? Do you
remember? Well, I don't know. Of course, the
Vietnam War wasn't going on then. Well, it may have
been. When did the Vietnam War start, 61?
Well, no. It may have been. You were at Fort Polk in
61. Yeah, but that was— You're just trying to think
about when it— I came back in 63, so it was sometime
after 63. Stay with Mr. Rutter. What were his chief
frustrations with student life? What did he worry
most about? Well, he worried most about their
appearances. He didn't worry too much about the
cadets, but he worried about the civilian
appearances. He also worried about the faculty
appearances, too. He wanted the kids to get an
education. Now, they brought a black in. He'd come
out of prison, but he had been a war hero. And he came
to A&M. They got him in A&M somehow. Earl Rudd
accepted him, and he moved into one of the dorms I
supervised then. And he was one that he would
occasionally call one of the so-called
counselors, and say, I'm coming out tonight. I
want to tour the dormitories. And he'd go through,
and he'd visit with them. Well, he wanted to visit
this black man. He called me, and it was raining. So
I alerted the dorm data that we were coming. When we
get to this guy's room, there's no lights on except
one little light in that room and a radio playing.
That's what they call it, soul music then. And
there were about four blacks in there. And
everybody turned the lights on, and I turned them
on for them. And he said, what's bothering you all?
Well, they had all kinds of things. And he said,
well, you're getting a good education.
Well, yeah, they thought. He said, well, now this
is just kind of like a filling station. We're
brought here to get a good education. If you don't
think you're getting it, I want to know. Other
stuff you can talk to somebody else about, but I
want to know if you're not getting an education.
But he made the dormitories pretty regular. Do you
remember any student efforts to play any pranks or
march on Mr. Rutter's house? I don't remember him
trying to march on his house, but he had a bulldog
called Ranger and If somebody wanted him to get a
message, they'd paint that poor dog up, and that
dog would go home to eat, of course. And that's the
way they got the messages to him. But the only march
that I remember where they marched on the
president's home was when Jack Williams was
president. Were you, by chance, near the campus or
on campus when Mr. Rutter's house burned, the
president's house, over across from Sbisa?
I don't think so. I've heard stories about it, but I
don't remember when that house burned.
It was late on a Saturday, I believe. Yeah. All
right, let's see. Were you aware of Mr. Rutter's
declining health before he goes to the hospital
and dies? Well, to a large degree, yes. We knew that
he left when he got nervous. he'd eat, and he was on a
mashed potato circuit at a lot of places, and he
would get so overweight that he'd go to Houston to a
hospital down there to lose weight. Now, that's
about as much as I knew about his medical history.
So when he passed away, of course he was in the
hospital when he died, but we were all very
surprised by it. All right, let's see. Evaluate
Rutter as a president from the student life
aspect. Well, from the student life aspect, he was
a good president. A lot of the kids didn't like him,
but they respected him because he made them you
know, get a haircut. If they didn't get a haircut,
well, he was after them. And beards were out. And
they had to keep their dress proper. I mean, when I
say proper, they didn't have to wear a coat and tie
or even a tie, but they better not walk around
barefooted, you know. And we wouldn't let them in
our office if they were barefooted. But I think he
was pretty well liked. I know a lot of the faculty
really didn't like him, but I don't know whether it
was fear or what, but they respected him, you know.
You said barefoot student. If a student came to
your office barefooted, what did you say to him? Go
back to your room and put on your shoes and socks.
What if he came with a beard? Go shave. What if a
student said, I'm not going to shave? You can't
talk to me. Did anybody ever try to? No, because
they always had to come see me about something,
see. Those guys did. What were the primary worries
that you had to deal with from the students? Well,
we were concerned about keeping the dorms where
they could study, and that the dormitory was
clean, and presumably no alcohol, because we...
We didn't go into that in the civilian areas as much
as we did in the Corps. And we were concerned that
they stayed in school and that they took care of
their personal debts. During your years in
student life, did the use of alcohol on campus
increase?
I don't think so. We sponsored a lot of dances. And I
can't remember them coming to the dances, you
know, enumerated. Can you? Yeah, they did toward
the last. They liked to have bands that came in with
just the best songs, Sloppy Pants. The music was so
loud and so terrible. But they were still dressed
when they came in. Yeah, there toward the end, it
was pretty much, you know, they did their rights.
What about drugs? Were there drugs being used on
the campus during those years? There may have
been, but I didn't know about it. I've heard about
something. I heard about some of them, smoking pot
primarily.
Now women are admitted during the 60s under Mr.
Rutter. How did that change the task of a student
counselor? Well, really very little because they
didn't live on the campus the first time. And once
they moved on the campus, I remember where the
first dorm they moved in. Was it Hart Hall? Was that
the first dorm they had? No, it's one right there at
Northgate. Okay, that's Walton Hall, I guess. All
right, then that leads us to a new president. When
do you remember first encountering Jack
Williams? What was your first impression? Well,
first impression, you're not an Aggie. That's off
the bat.
But I began to like him, and I liked what he did. He
was an educator, for one thing. Earl Rudder had
laid the groundwork for the growth of A&M, but he
kept it up.
And then about not long after he was president was
when streaking became a vogue. And we had some
streakers on the campus and we caught them one
night. And I say we caught them, the university
campus security then took pictures of them and
Well, the kids were so embarrassed. But anyway,
they were going to be dismissed
from A&M. And so some of the kids decided they were
going to march on President Williams' home. And
John Coldis had gone to a convention. And he had a
dean of students, which was a guy by the name of
Powell.
So I heard, because I'm an associate vice
president then, I had heard that these kids were
coming out, because somebody came and said they
were going to march on President Williams' house.
So I alerted the University Police, and I hailed it
and got down there. Well, there was a pretty good
crowd, and they were yelling and they were
screaming and straggling and all, and Jack
Williams comes out and he said, I'm going to talk to
Williams. Just stay in the house for a while. Don't
say anything to them. Let me talk to them. He said, I
want to talk to them. Well, they kind of shouted him
down. And so he finally did go back in. And I finally
convinced them they should leave. And the
university police came up to them. They were
writing names and everything else. And they knew
the kids that they were protesting to get out of
school were going. Their protest failed. And
that's the only one I can recall where they Dr.
Williams have a sense of humor? Yeah, it was a, it
was a, you kind of had to look for it once in a while. I
think the one famous one I can remember was when
they said, you know what a hell of a Lou Koneck is,
and he said, yeah, beat the hell out of Texas. And
they give him a, another time they gave him the horn
sitting there, and he said, yeah, that's a
careless carpenter.
What about his public speaking ability? He was
pretty good. And then it's under him that John
Coldis comes in. Does Coldis change student life
focus at all? Well, the biggest change he made was
that he wanted services in everything. Coldest
was the vice president for student services. The
business office was the business services
office. Everything had a service in it. So that
food service and all was under him, would be moved
under him? No, food service did not. That stayed
under the fiscal office. Oh, okay, all right.
Well, eventually it went under him, though,
didn't it? Who? Eventually, food services did go
under. I don't remember food services ever coming
under John. Describe Coltus as a man to work with
and work for. He was very easy to work for. He just
hated like the dickens to say no. And I'd always
tell him, you know, sometimes you need to say no.
And he said, I'm going to let you tell them no, which
I did lots of times. And I told everybody, I said, I
wear the black hat, John. But his door was always
open to the students. He'd come to work about 6.30
or so in the morning, and that's when he'd do his
work, because at 8 o'clock he started. A student
could make an appointment with Colas at just about
any time, unless he was in a meeting or something.
And he had an infallible memory for students'
names. Oh, my God. He and his wife both. Doris and I
used to marvel when we'd go to the convention,
because on the way back, they would talk to one
another, and they would we found out how they were
doing this, they would remember something
particular about that individual that they could
associate with, and they would use their names
constantly. And they'd file it away. Let's see. As
I understand it, one of Dr. Williams' conditions
for his accepting the presidency here was that the
board authorize him to designate a dorm January of
1971 to be used for women. So the female enrollment
really goes upward. Did that make much change in
y'all's duties? No. They had, well, I'll take that
back. They had a dean of men, and they hired a woman
who was a dean of women. Who was that? Toby Shriver.
Shriver. But she got married. Was that her name
before she? No, she got married several times. I
don't remember. That was her name when she came.
Anyway, Hannigan, I was under Hannigan, wasn't I?
I was under Hannigan. I was before Colas that she
came. So that worked out. And she had an assistant
that worked for her. And they didn't have, they
hired students They didn't have somebody to go in
and take their students, women students did that.
As you look back on these years when you were a key
person in student life, of what are you most proud
personally?
Well, I'm proud of the fact that I think I did a good
job and the students still, I see students all the
time and they remember me when they come back and I
kept a number of students in school that might not
have been in school and I
think I also kept, helped keep a hand on the
discipline of the students. We had pretty strong
discipline up until this, shortly before I
retired, on how we handled the students.
This is not under Colas, but it was under Hannigan.
I can remember they, they would come over here and
was going to protest, and I guess that was the
Vietnam War, and they had a bunch of students over
there, and they were haranguing the students, and
O.L. Luther was a Texas Ranger, and Jim Hannigan
said, I want those guys in my office. So he and
Shorty Maddox, they've shouldered their way
through the crowd, and I mean, they put their arm on
this guy right there. He and his friend, they were
students, and brought him into Hannigan's
office, and he said, you're out of school right
now. pack your stuff and leave because you're no
longer enrolled at Texas A&M University. That was
about six o'clock in the evening. I
can remember, well I think I helped a lot on the
discipline on the things. I think I helped a lot of
students.
Do you remember any student problems relating to
race? Race. Race or ethnicity?
There was a couple of, on race, we had a few blacks,
and they came to see, this was when I was director of
civilian student activities. They came to see me,
about four of them one time, and they wanted to
know, they wanted to complain about them, that
they weren't being treated right, and they said,
One of the things they said was, you don't
understand what it's like to be black. And I said, I
understand that. But one thing you don't
understand is to be a white when some of this stuff
is being forced on you. You want something to
happen to your family or something might happen to
you? I said, don't threaten me. That was the end of
that conversation. That's the only thing. They
complained about something, but I never heard the
students complain about it. But right after that,
you got a call from campus police. They were
burning books over at the library. Yeah. But there
were no, by and large, there had been no dormitory
incidents. Not that I know of. Of black and white.
Not contrary. They lived in there, you know, in the
civilian dorms. That was on the rudder. All right,
I'm almost through. What have we not talked about?
What are the omissions? What have we not talked
about that we should have regarding? Well, I think
this was during part of the time when Dolores was
working out there and I was with the guard. Tell me
about the office where you'd have, and I was in
office, stayed open 24 hours a day. And she worked
on a weekend, on some weekends, and she was out
there all day, Saturday and Sunday.
They just did everything. I felt like we never had
any time off because we had to learn telegraphy
because they closed down over at the MSC, you know,
during the holidays. Western Union closed down.
But anyway, it was... And running messengers with
telephone messages to come to the phone or call
their parents or call a prof. We went on a cruise.
Last year, and there happened to be one of the boys
that needed a job so badly, and he was one of my
messengers, and he really climbed up to be an
executive of a big oil company. He was on this
cruise. When he saw me, he said, you know, he said,
when I started working with you, he said, I thought
you were going to be so easy. He said, the first day I
came to work, he said, it was pouring down rain. and
you had a lot of messages a lot of telephone calls
you said to me bill you better get ready to deliver
these and then he said miss perry it's raining and
she does you knew when you were hired that you were
going to have to work and do this there's a slicker
and there's the bicycle so deliver it and when we
got off the ship he hollered down said Miss Berry,
do you have any more messages? But when the dorms
were so crowded and we were having so much trouble
placing all these students coming in and we had a
three and four-door room. And I always worried
about so many times the students would forget to
turn in their registration card. And I had a call
from the registrar's office and I couldn't find
a... I had on my roster the name Chanel. But I
couldn't find any registration or anything, so I
finally called the first sergeant in. And I got
along with the students very well. And he said,
Miss Perry, he said, you know, we have a pet skunk in
that room that's got little ones. And I said, well,
you get rid of it. That was Chanel. That was Chanel.
Had a room to herself. and there were a lot of sad
times with the students. You don't remember
students, you don't think of them really being
poor at that time. But there really were some that
really just didn't have any money. And I wasn't
supposed to, but I did let them reserve their
rooms, and I kept a lot of it up in my head. I couldn't
afford to take sick a lot of time during that time.
But anyway, the students, I can't say enough good
things about them. I think A&M was blessed with
having very moral students. I really don't think
you have that as much today as we had it back then.
But they were really, really outstanding. And I
was always proud that Perry had a degree from A&M. I
was just sorry that I wasn't able to get one, too,
because when we lived in College View, if I could
have just gotten my last year, it would have been
fine, but it would have been great. But we needed to
get him out of school, so that was worth the
sacrifice. As she said, the students, they're my
fondest memory of A&M, and they always were, and
they always always pretty upbeat, really. And as
the years went on, it began to change, and I guess
the change started somewhere in 75, where it began
to get worse. And when I say worse, I mean the
students and everything began to kind of come
apart. I guess the 60s influenced on it. Well, it
didn't come apart, but The closeness, the
cohesiveness of the student body began to change.
You retire in what year? 88.
As you look back on those years, What did it mean to
you that you came to Texas A&M, to school? Well, it
means a whole hell of a lot, because I don't know, I
wouldn't be where I am today. If I had gone and went
on back to Oklahoma A&M, now Oklahoma State, I
don't know what I would have done. Perry's people,
Perry's father, he was He was talking to you about
his father. That wasn't his father. That was his
mother. His mother married. But his father was a
surgeon. And all of the Perrys were in the medical
field. His aunt worked with Dr. Banning and Best to
make insulin. And they always thought Perry would
go over to medical school. But when he went to A&M,
they just felt like disowning him because he was
not going to do this. But anyway, later on, as they
came to visit us, they realized we hadn't gone to
hell in a handbasket and everything was okay. If
somebody gave you today, this is the next last
question, if somebody gave you today a check for a
million dollars with only one condition on it, you
must give it to Texas A&M, but you can decide what
the money is going to be used for. What would you
tell them to use it for? Most of it I would want to put
in the scholarships. Awarded on what basis? on
need, I think, not just their scholastic ability.
You know, with that much money, I might endow one
presidential scholar. And I put some into the,
what is it, the fun for bricks and mortar that
they're talking about. Okay, last question. What
feelings do you hold in your heart now for Texas
A&M? I love it. I'm enjoying retirement, and I tell
everybody when it stopped being fun, that's when I
decided I'd retire.
Some people said, do you miss it? And I said, you
know, really, I'm still fortunate that I belong to
a committee out there, ex-officio. But I said, I
don't have time to work anymore. I've got other
things going on. But I don't, I miss the
association with the students.